---
layout: post
title:  "Activities on the Australian continent"
date:   2019-07-22
description: "Lev Lafayette gives inspiring talks at ARDC and HPC AI Advisory Council"
nolink: False
---

Lev Lafayette is leading HPCCF related activities in down under giving a talk at the **HPC AI Advisory Council** and at the **Australian eResearch Skilled Workforce Summit** that cover the HPCCF.

# Developments toward an international HPC Certification

Lev gives a talk at the [HPC AI Advisory Council (Perth)](http://www.hpcadvisorycouncil.com/events/2019/australia-conference/agenda.php).

## Abstract

Currently, there has been no means of evaluating whether a user in one
environment has the appropriate skills in another. Last year, at the
International Supercomputing Conference in Germany, the first meeting of the
HPC Certification Forum was held. This Forum, whose Board includes members
from the UK, France, Germany, and Australia, seeks to establish a graduated
certificate in HPC skills across several domains. The Board does not want to
be responsible for the teaching or delivery of education content, but rather
evaluation of outcomes. This presentation will outline the development of the
Forum with a particular focus on developments in Australia and New Zealand.

# Development of shared training material

Lev gives a talk at the
[ARDC: The Australian eResearch Skilled Workforce Summit (Sydney)](https://ardc.edu.au/events/the-australian-eresearch-skilled-workforce-summit/).

## Abstract

With different sites providing their own training with varied content and delivery there is a lack of consistency in skills and knowledge among HPC users, despite the fact that there is a recognised high level of homogeneity in HPC skills. One group trying to address this challenge on an international level is the International HPC Certification Forum ("the Forum"). The Forum was established by individuals committed to identifying competency areas, skills and measurable outcomes and plans to provide examination and certification of users.

For Australia and New Zealand HPC educators and trainers in the HPC environment there is a desire for a collaborative development of course content. With a lead from the Pawsey Supercomputing Centre, the University of Melbourne, Adelaide University, and NCI, national
coordination of HPC educators in Australia and New Zealand are developing a repository of knowledge for content, delivery, and assessment, with the objective of increasing regional research output.
