---
layout: post
title:  "Results of the survey for HPC practitioners on the HPC Training Community"
date: 2021-10-10
description: We analyzed the current 55 submissions to the <a href="https://forms.gle/ujtXH5urdP5CwKsR7">survey</a> and created an intermediate result.
---

So far we received 55 submissions for our <a href="https://forms.gle/ujtXH5urdP5CwKsR7">survey</a>.
We conducted an intermediate analysis of the submissions.
We thank our contributors from HPC CF and the NHR centers.

The questions covered three sections:

  * Satisfaction
  * Training experience
  * Personal information

The personal information was only collected for statistical purpose.

## Results 

### Satisfaction

Most participants indicated that their systems are rather easy to use (85% at least average to high satisfaction). 7 Attendees were not satisfied.
Also, most attendees were pleased when preparing and executing apps on their HPC system. 
Individual comments for improvement contain two major themes:
  * Difficulty to set up and retain a working environment including dependency handling and packaging, missing standard system software, behavior after system tools - it is easier to use a laptop 
  * Providing more interactive tools such as Jupyter Notebooks  
Documentation was similarly assessed, 5 participants marked less than average.
For training courses provided by the HPC community, 6 participants were less satisfied but 32% were just average.
Individual comments for satisfaction with training include various positive feedback. Room for improvement cover:

  * better preparation of trainers
  * some detail or important topics are lacking
  * the goals and coverage of training is not well defined

In the opinion of participants, a data center could support them better by:

  * more helpdesk interactions and direct contact as a ticket system isn't optimal due to delayed response time
  * providing more training, potentially mini-courses (e.g., write in bash) and more experienced trainers 
  * providing best practices and rules of thumb for running good and efficient jobs
  
### Training Experience

There had been various categories that had been investigated. 

  * Most attendees found they had attended sufficiently many pieces of training. 
  * At the same time, 51% indicate they would need more training to do their job productively. 
  * About 20% miss information on what is going on under the hood of the system. 
  * A small fraction has no time for proper training and misses important topics.
  * Finding the schedules of training is easy and there is no trouble registering.
  * Some struggle with costs for training though.
  * About 30% feels training is not recognized among professionals and difficult to identify which trainings are important to them.
  * 60% would appreciate a certificate for training.
  * About 50% prefer virtual workshops over in-person events.

Among the most pressing issues related to training were:

  * Industry recognition of training
  * Lack of hands-on-training
  * Intermediate training is missing
  * Interacting effectively with an HPC system from a user-friendly environment
  * Clear indication of goals and takeaways of students

## Personal information

About 45% of attendees attended less than 2 training events over the last 5 years while 40% attended between 2 and 5 events and 10% less than 10 events.

The topics the attendees are most interested in were Performance Engineering (60%) and Big Data Analytics (51%) followed by using the HPC environment and HPC fundamentals (49%).

The survey is not fully representative, in the cohort, 74% of the attendees were from Germany and 48% PhD students followed by 26% of researchers.
Most have been using the system for between 1-5 years while 34% are using HPC for less than a year.

## Conclusions

We believe that the HPC-CF efforts will address some of the issues mentioned by the attendees in the free text forms: by labeling a training with the skills - it will be clear what the content will be and the recognition of experts and industry are addressed by the certificating itself.

## Data

As promised and indicated in the survey, we release the raw data of the submitters.
The non-textual answers are published in 
<a href="/assets/data/2021-training-community-responses.csv">2021-training-community-responses.csv</a>.
